aren’	they?”
Harry	could	sort	of	see	what	Hagrid	meant.	Once	you	got	over	the	first
shock	of	seeing	something	that	was	half	horse,	half	bird,	you	started	to
appreciate	the	hippogriffs’	gleaming	coats,	changing	smoothly	from	feather	to
hair,	each	of	them	a	different	color:	stormy	gray,	bronze,	pinkish	roan,
gleaming	chestnut,	and	inky	black.
“So,”	said	Hagrid,	rubbing	his	hands	together	and	beaming	around,	“if	yeh
wan’	ter	come	a	bit	nearer	—”
No	one	seemed	to	want	to.	Harry,	Ron,	and	Hermione,	however,
approached	the	fence	cautiously.
“Now,	firs’	thing	yeh	gotta	know	abou’	hippogriffs	is,	they’re	proud,”	said
Hagrid.	“Easily	offended,	hippogriffs	are.	Don’t	never	insult	one,	’cause	it
might	be	the	last	thing	yeh	do.”
Malfoy,	Crabbe,	and	Goyle	weren’t	listening;	they	were	talking	in	an
undertone	and	Harry	had	a	nasty	feeling	they	were	plotting	how	best	to
disrupt	the	lesson.
“Yeh	always	wait	fer	the	hippogriff	ter	make	the	firs’	move,”	Hagrid
continued.	“It’s	polite,	see?	Yeh	walk	toward	him,	and	yeh	bow,	an’	yeh	wait.
If	he	bows	back,	yeh’re	allowed	ter	touch	him.	If	he	doesn’	bow,	then	get
away	from	him	sharpish,	’cause	those	talons	hurt.
“Right	—	who	wants	ter	go	first?”
Most	of	the	class	backed	farther	away	in	answer.	Even	Harry,	Ron,	and
Hermione	had	misgivings.	The	hippogriffs	were	tossing	their	fierce	heads	and
flexing	their	powerful	wings;	they	didn’t	seem	to	like	being	tethered	like	this.
“No	one?”	said	Hagrid,	with	a	pleading	look.
“I’ll	do	it,”	said	Harry.
There	was	an	intake	of	breath	from	behind	him,	and	both	Lavender	and
Parvati	whispered,	“Oooh,	no,	Harry,	remember	your	tea	leaves!”
Harry	ignored	them.	He	climbed	over	the	paddock	fence.
“Good	man,	Harry!”	roared	Hagrid.	“Right	then	—	let’s	see	how	yeh	get	on
with	Buckbeak.”
He	untied	one	of	the	chains,	pulled	the	gray	hippogriff	away	from	its
fellows,	and	slipped	off	its	leather	collar.	The	class	on	the	other	side	of	the
paddock	seemed	to	be	holding	its	breath.	Malfoy’s	eyes	were	narrowed
maliciously.
“Easy,	now,	Harry,”	said	Hagrid	quietly.	“Yeh’ve	got	eye	contact,	now	try
not	ter	blink.	.	.	.	Hippogriffs	don’	trust	yeh	if	yeh	blink	too	much.	.	.	.”
Harry’s	eyes	immediately	began	to	water,	but	he	didn’t	shut	them.
Buckbeak	had	turned	his	great,	sharp	head	and	was	staring	at	Harry	with	one
fierce	orange	eye.
“Tha’s	it,”	said	Hagrid.	“Tha’s	it,	Harry	.	.	.	now,	bow	.	.	.”
Harry	didn’t	feel	much	like	exposing	the	back	of	his	neck	to	Buckbeak,	but
he	did	as	he	was	told.	He	gave	a	short	bow	and	then	looked	up.
The	hippogriff	was	still	staring	haughtily	at	him.	It	didn’t	move.
“Ah,”	said	Hagrid,	sounding	worried.	“Right	—	back	away,	now,	Harry,
easy	does	it	—”
But	then,	to	Harry’s	enormous	surprise,	the	hippogriff	suddenly	bent	its
scaly	front	knees	and	sank	into	what	was	an	unmistakable	bow.
“Well	done,	Harry!”	said	Hagrid,	ecstatic.	“Right	—	yeh	can	touch	him!
Pat	his	beak,	go	on!”
Feeling	that	a	better	reward	would	have	been	to	back	away,	Harry	moved
slowly	toward	the	hippogriff	and	reached	out	toward	it.	He	patted	the	beak
several	times	and	the	hippogriff	closed	its	eyes	lazily,	as	though	enjoying	it.
The	class	broke	into	applause,	all	except	for	Malfoy,	Crabbe,	and	Goyle,
who	were	looking	deeply	disappointed.
“Righ’	then,	Harry,”	said	Hagrid.	“I	reckon	he	might’	let	yeh	ride	him!”
This	was	more	than	Harry	had	bargained	for.	He	was	used	to	a	broomstick;
but	he	wasn’t	sure	a	hippogriff	would	be	quite	the	same.
“Yeh	climb	up	there,	jus’	behind	the	wing	joint,”	said	Hagrid,	“an’	mind
yeh	don’	pull	any	of	his	feathers	out,	he	won’	like	that.	.	.	.”
Harry	put	his	foot	on	the	top	of	Buckbeak’s	wing	and	hoisted	himself	onto
its	back.	Buckbeak	stood	up.	Harry	wasn’t	sure	where	to	hold	on;	everything
in	front	of	him	was	covered	with	feathers.
“Go	on,	then!”	roared	Hagrid,	slapping	the	hippogriff’s	hindquarters.
Without	warning,	twelve-foot	wings	flapped	open	on	either	side	of	Harry;
he	just	had	time	to	seize	the	hippogriff	around	the	neck	before	he	was	soaring
upward.	It	was	nothing	like	a	broomstick,	and	Harry	knew	which	one	he
preferred;	the	hippogriff’s	wings	beat	uncomfortably	on	either	side	of	him,
catching	him	under	his	legs	and	making	him	feel	he	was	about	to	be	thrown
off;	the	glossy	feathers	slipped	under	his	fingers	and	he	didn’t	dare	get	a
stronger	grip;	instead	of	the	smooth	action	of	his	Nimbus	Two	Thousand,	he
now	felt	himself	rocking	backward	and	forward	as	the	hindquarters	of	the
hippogriff	rose	and	fell	with	its	wings.
Buckbeak	flew	him	once	around	the	paddock	and	then	headed	back	to	the
ground;	this	was	the	bit	Harry	had	been	dreading;	he	leaned	back	as	the
smooth	neck	lowered,	feeling	he	was	going	to	slip	off	over	the	beak,	then	felt
a	heavy	thud	as	the	four	ill-assorted	feet	hit	the	ground.	He	just	managed	to
hold	on	and	push	himself	straight	again.
“Good	work,	Harry!”	roared	Hagrid	as	everyone	except	Malfoy,	Crabbe,
and	Goyle	cheered.	“Okay,	who	else	wants	a	go?”
Emboldened	by	Harry’s	success,	the	rest	of	the	class	climbed	cautiously
into	the	paddock.	Hagrid	untied	the	hippogriffs	one	by	one,	and	soon	people
were	bowing	nervously,	all	over	the	paddock.	Neville	ran	repeatedly
backward	from	his,	which	didn’t	seem	to	want	to	bend	its	knees.	Ron	and
Hermione	practiced	on	the	chestnut,	while	Harry	watched.
Malfoy,	Crabbe,	and	Goyle	had	taken	over	Buckbeak.	He	had	bowed	to
Malfoy,	who	was	now	patting	his	beak,	looking	disdainful.
“This	is	very	easy,”	Malfoy	drawled,	loud	enough	for	Harry	to	hear	him.	“I
knew	it	must	have	been,	if	Potter	could	do	it.	.	.	.	I	bet	you’re	not	dangerous	at
all,	are	you?”	he	said	to	the	hippogriff.	“Are	you,	you	great	ugly	brute?”
It	happened	in	a	flash	of	steely	talons;	Malfoy	let	out	a	high-pitched	scream
and	next	moment,	Hagrid	was	wrestling	Buckbeak	back	into	his	collar	as	he
strained	to	get	at	Malfoy,	who	lay	curled	in	the	grass,	blood	blossoming	over
his	robes.
“I’m	dying!”	Malfoy	yelled	as	the	class	panicked.	“I’m	dying,	look	at	me!
It’s	killed	me!”
“Yer	not	dyin’!”	said	Hagrid,	who	had	gone	very	white.	“Someone	help	me
—	gotta	get	him	outta	here	—”
Hermione	ran	to	hold	open	the	gate	as	Hagrid	lifted	Malfoy	easily.	As	they
passed,	Harry	saw	that	there	was	a	long,	deep	gash	on	Malfoy’s	arm;	blood
splattered	the	grass	and	Hagrid	ran	with	him,	up	the	slope	toward	the	castle.
Very	shaken,	the	Care	of	Magical	Creatures	class	followed	at	a	walk.	The
Slytherins	were	all	shouting	about	Hagrid.
“They	should	fire	him	straight	away!”	said	Pansy	Parkinson,	who	was	in
tears.
“It	was	Malfoy’s	fault!”	snapped	Dean	Thomas.	Crabbe	and	Goyle	flexed
their	muscles	threateningly.
They	all	climbed	the	stone	steps	into	the	deserted	entrance	hall.
“I’m	going	to	see	if	he’s	okay!”	said	Pansy,	and	they	all	watched	her	run	up
the	marble	staircase.	The	Slytherins,	still	muttering	about	Hagrid,	headed
away	in	the	direction	of	their	dungeon	common	room;	Harry,	Ron,	and
Hermione	proceeded	upstairs	to	Gryffindor	Tower.
“D’you	think	he’ll	be	all	right?”	said	Hermione	nervously.
“’Course	he	will.	Madam	Pomfrey	can	mend	cuts	in	about	a	second,”	said
Harry,	who	had	had	far	worse	injuries	mended	magically	by	the	nurse.
“That	was	a	really	bad	thing	to	happen	in	Hagrid’s	first	class,	though,
wasn’t	it?”	said	Ron,	looking	worried.	“Trust	Malfoy	to	mess	things	up	for
him.	.	.	.”
They	were	among	the	first	to	reach	the	Great	Hall	at	dinnertime,	hoping	to
see	Hagrid,	but	he	wasn’t	there.
“They	
wouldn’t
	fire	him,	would	they?”	said	Hermione	anxiously,	not
touching	her	steak-and-kidney	pudding.
“They’d	better	not,”	said	Ron,	who	wasn’t	eating	either.
Harry	was	watching	the	Slytherin	table.	A	large	group	including	Crabbe
and	Goyle	was	huddled	together,	deep	in	conversation.	Harry	was	sure	they
were	cooking	up	their	own	version	of	how	Malfoy	had	been	injured.
“Well,	you	can’t	say	it	wasn’t	an	interesting	first	day	back,”	said	Ron
gloomily.
They	went	up	to	the	crowded	Gryffindor	common	room	after	dinner	and
tried	to	do	the	homework	Professor	McGonagall	had	given	them,	but	all	three
of	them	kept	breaking	off	and	glancing	out	of	the	tower	window.
“There’s	a	light	on	in	Hagrid’s	window,”	Harry	said	suddenly.
Ron	looked	at	his	watch.
“If	we	hurried,	we	could	go	down	and	see	him.	It’s	still	quite	early.	.	.	.”
“I	don’t	know,”	Hermione	said	slowly,	and	Harry	saw	her	glance	at	him.
“I’m	allowed	to	walk	across	the	
grounds
,”
	
he	said	pointedly.	“Sirius	Black
hasn’t	got	past	the	dementors	here,	has	he?”
So	they	put	their	things	away	and	headed	out	of	the	portrait	hole,	glad	not
to	meet	anybody	on	their	way	to	the	front	doors,	as	they	weren’t	entirely	sure
they	were	supposed	to	be	out.
The	grass	was	still	wet	and	looked	almost	black	in	the	twilight.	When	they
reached	Hagrid’s	hut,	they	knocked,	and	a	voice	growled,	“C’min.”
Hagrid	was	sitting	in	his	shirtsleeves	at	his	scrubbed	wooden	table;	his
boarhound,	Fang,	had	his	head	in	Hagrid’s	lap.	One	look	told	them	that
Hagrid	had	been	drinking	a	lot;	there	was	a	pewter	tankard	almost	as	big	as	a
bucket	in	front	of	him,	and	he	seemed	to	be	having	difficulty	getting	them
into	focus.
“’Spect	it’s	a	record,”	he	said	thickly,	when	he	recognized	them.	“Don’
reckon	they’ve	ever	had	a	teacher	who	lasted	on’y	a	day	before.”
“You	haven’t	been	fired,	Hagrid!”	gasped	Hermione.
“Not	yet,”	said	Hagrid	miserably,	taking	a	huge	gulp	of	whatever	was	in	the
tankard.	“But	’s	only	a	matter	o’	time,	i’n’t	it,	after	Malfoy	.	.	.”
“How	is	he?”	said	Ron	as	they	all	sat	down.	“It	wasn’t	serious,	was	it?”
“Madam	Pomfrey	fixed	him	best	she	could,”	said	Hagrid	dully,	“but	he’s
sayin’	it’s	still	agony	.	.	.	covered	in	bandages	.	.	.	moanin’	.	.	.”
“He’s	faking	it,”	said	Harry	at	once.	“Madam	Pomfrey	can	mend	anything.
She	regrew	half	my	bones	last	year.	Trust	Malfoy	to	milk	it	for	all	it’s	worth.”
“School	gov’nors	have	bin	told,	o’	course,”	said	Hagrid	miserably.	“They
reckon	I	started	too	big.	Shoulda	left	hippogriffs	fer	later	.	.	.	done
flobberworms	or	summat.	.	.	.	Jus’	thought	it’d	make	a	good	firs’	lesson.	.	.	.
’S	all	my	fault.	.	.	.”
“It’s	all	
Malfoy’s
	fault,	Hagrid!”	said	Hermione	earnestly.
“We’re	witnesses,”	said	Harry.	“You	said	hippogriffs	attack	if	you	insult
them.	It’s	Malfoy’s	problem	that	he	wasn’t	listening.	We’ll	tell	Dumbledore
what	really	happened.”
“Yeah,	don’t	worry,	Hagrid,	we’ll	back	you	up,”	said	Ron.
Tears	leaked	out	of	the	crinkled	corners	of	Hagrid’s	beetle-black	eyes.	He
grabbed	both	Harry	and	Ron	and	pulled	them	into	a	bone-breaking	hug.
“I	think	you’ve	had	enough	to	drink,	Hagrid,”	said	Hermione	firmly.	She
took	the	tankard	from	the	table	and	went	outside	to	empty	it.
“Ar,	maybe	she’s	right,”	said	Hagrid,	letting	go	of	Harry	and	Ron,	who
both	staggered	away,	rubbing	their	ribs.	Hagrid	heaved	himself	out	of	his
chair	and	followed	Hermione	unsteadily	outside.	They	heard	a	loud	splash.
“What’s	he	done?”	said	Harry	nervously	as	Hermione	came	back	in	with
the	empty	tankard.
“Stuck	his	head	in	the	water	barrel,”	said	Hermione,	putting	the	tankard
away.
Hagrid	came	back,	his	long	hair	and	beard	sopping	wet,	wiping	the	water
out	of	his	eyes.
“Tha’s	better,”	he	said,	shaking	his	head	like	a	dog	and	drenching	them	all.
“Listen,	it	was	good	of	yeh	ter	come	an’	see	me,	I	really	—”
Hagrid	stopped	dead,	staring	at	Harry	as	though	he’d	only	just	realized	he
was	there.
“WHAT	D’YEH	THINK	YOU’RE	DOIN’,	EH?”	he	roared,	so	suddenly
that	they	jumped	a	foot	in	the	air.	“YEH’RE	NOT	TO	GO	WANDERIN’
AROUND	AFTER	DARK,	HARRY!	AN’	YOU	TWO!	LETTIN’	HIM!”
Hagrid	strode	over	to	Harry,	grabbed	his	arm,	and	pulled	him	to	the	door.
“C’mon!”	Hagrid	said	angrily.	“I’m	takin’	yer	all	back	up	ter	school,	an’
don’	let	me	catch	yeh	walkin’	down	ter	see	me	after	dark	again.	I’m	not	worth
that!”
M
	
CHAPTER		SEVEN
THE	BOGGART	IN	THE	WARDROBE
alfoy	didn’t	reappear	in	classes	until	late	on	Thursday	morning,	when
the	Slytherins	and	Gryffindors	were	halfway	through	double	Potions.
He	swaggered	into	the	dungeon,	his	right	arm	covered	in	bandages	and	bound
up	in	a	sling,	acting,	in	Harry’s	opinion,	as	though	he	were	the	heroic	survivor
of	some	dreadful	battle.
“How	is	it,	Draco?”	simpered	Pansy	Parkinson.	“Does	it	hurt	much?”
“Yeah,”	said	Malfoy,	putting	on	a	brave	sort	of	grimace.	But	Harry	saw	him
wink	at	Crabbe	and	Goyle	when	Pansy	had	looked	away.
“Settle	down,	settle	down,”	said	Professor	Snape	idly.
Harry	and	Ron	scowled	at	each	other;	Snape	wouldn’t	have	said	“settle
down”	if	
they’d
	walked	in	late,	he’d	have	given	them	detention.	But	Malfoy
had	always	been	able	to	get	away	with	anything	in	Snape’s	classes;	Snape	was
head	of	Slytherin	House,	and	generally	favored	his	own	students	above	all
others.
They	were	making	a	new	potion	today,	a	Shrinking	Solution.	Malfoy	set	up
his	cauldron	right	next	to	Harry	and	Ron,	so	that	they	were	preparing	their
ingredients	on	the	same	table.
“Sir,”	Malfoy	called,	“sir,	I’ll	need	help	cutting	up	these	daisy	roots,
because	of	my	arm	—”
“Weasley,	cut	up	Malfoy’s	roots	for	him,”	said	Snape	without	looking	up.
Ron	went	brick	red.
“There’s	nothing	wrong	with	your	arm,”	he	hissed	at	Malfoy.
Malfoy	smirked	across	the	table.
“Weasley,	you	heard	Professor	Snape;	cut	up	these	roots.”
Ron	seized	his	knife,	pulled	Malfoy’s	roots	toward	him,	and	began	to	chop
them	roughly,	so	that	they	were	all	different	sizes.
“Professor,”	drawled	Malfoy,	“Weasley’s	mutilating	my	roots,	sir.”
Snape	approached	their	table,	stared	down	his	hooked	nose	at	the	roots,
then	gave	Ron	an	unpleasant	smile	from	beneath	his	long,	greasy	black	hair.
“Change	roots	with	Malfoy,	Weasley.”
“But,	sir	—	!”
Ron	had	spent	the	last	quarter	of	an	hour	carefully	shredding	his	own	roots
into	exactly	equal	pieces.
“
Now
,”	said	Snape	in	his	most	dangerous	voice.
Ron	shoved	his	own	beautifully	cut	roots	across	the	table	at	Malfoy,	then
took	up	the	knife	again.
“And,	sir,	I’ll	need	this	shrivelfig	skinned,”	said	Malfoy,	his	voice	full	of
malicious	laughter.
“Potter,	you	can	skin	Malfoy’s	shrivelfig,”	said	Snape,	giving	Harry	the
look	of	loathing	he	always	reserved	just	for	him.
Harry	took	Malfoy’s	shrivelfig	as	Ron	began	trying	to	repair	the	damage	to
the	roots	he	now	had	to	use.	Harry	skinned	the	shrivelfig	as	fast	as	he	could
and	flung	it	back	across	the	table	at	Malfoy	without	speaking.	Malfoy	was
smirking	more	broadly	than	ever.
“Seen	your	pal	Hagrid	lately?”	he	asked	them	quietly.
“None	of	your	business,”	said	Ron	jerkily,	without	looking	up.
“I’m	afraid	he	won’t	be	a	teacher	much	longer,”	said	Malfoy	in	a	tone	of
mock	sorrow.	“Father’s	not	very	happy	about	my	injury	—”
“Keep	talking,	Malfoy,	and	I’ll	give	you	a	real	injury,”	snarled	Ron.
“—	he’s	complained	to	the	school	governors.	
And
	to	the	Ministry	of	Magic.
Father’s	got	a	lot	of	influence,	you	know.	And	a	lasting	injury	like	this”	—	
he
gave	a	huge,	fake	sigh	—	“who	knows	if	my	arm’ll	ever	be	the	same	again?”
“So	that’s	why	you’re	putting	it	on,”	said	Harry,	accidentally	beheading	a
dead	caterpillar	because	his	hand	was	shaking	in	anger.	“To	try	to	get	Hagrid
fired.”
“Well,”	said	Malfoy,	lowering	his	voice	to	a	whisper,	“
partly,	
Potter.	But
there	are	other	benefits	too.	Weasley,	slice	my	caterpillars	for	me.”
A	few	cauldrons	away,	Neville	was	in	trouble.	Neville	regularly	went	to
pieces	in	Potions	lessons;	it	was	his	worst	subject,	and	his	great	fear	of
Professor	Snape	made	things	ten	times	worse.	His	potion,	which	was
supposed	to	be	a	bright,	acid	green,	had	turned	—
“Orange,	Longbottom,”	said	Snape,	ladling	some	up	and	allowing	it	to
splash	back	into	the	cauldron,	so	that	everyone	could	see.	“Orange.	Tell	me,
boy,	does	anything	penetrate	that	thick	skull	of	yours?	Didn’t	you	hear	me
say,	quite	clearly,	that	only	one	rat	spleen	was	needed?	Didn’t	I	state	plainly
that	a	dash	of	leech	juice	would	suffice?	What	do	I	have	to	do	to	make	you
understand,	Longbottom?”
Neville	was	pink	and	trembling.	He	looked	as	though	he	was	on	the	verge
of	tears.
“Please,	sir,”	said	Hermione,	“please,	I	could	help	Neville	put	it	right	—”
“I	don’t	remember	asking	you	to	show	off,	Miss	Granger,”	said	Snape
coldly,	and	Hermione	went	as	pink	as	Neville.	“Longbottom,	at	the	end	of	this
lesson	we	will	feed	a	few	drops	of	this	potion	to	your	toad	and	see	what
happens.	Perhaps	that	will	encourage	you	to	do	it	properly.”
Snape	moved	away,	leaving	Neville	breathless	with	fear.
“Help	me!”	he	moaned	to	Hermione.
“Hey,	Harry,”	said	Seamus	Finnigan,	leaning	over	to	borrow	Harry’s	brass
scales,	“have	you	heard?	
Daily	Prophet
	this	morning	—	they	reckon	Sirius
Black’s	been	sighted.”
“Where?”	said	Harry	and	Ron	quickly.	On	the	other	side	of	the	table,
Malfoy	looked	up,	listening	closely.
“Not	too	far	from	here,”	said	Seamus,	who	looked	excited.	“It	was	a
Muggle	who	saw	him.	’Course,	she	didn’t	really	understand.	The	Muggles
think	he’s	just	an	ordinary	criminal,	don’t	they?	So	she	phoned	the	telephone
hot	line.	By	the	time	the	Ministry	of	Magic	got	there,	he	was	gone.”
“Not	too	far	from	here	.	.	.	,”	Ron	repeated,	looking	significantly	at	Harry.
He	turned	around	and	saw	Malfoy	watching	closely.	“What,	Malfoy?	Need
something	else	skinned?”
But	Malfoy’s	eyes	were	shining	malevolently,	and	they	were	fixed	on
Harry.	He	leaned	across	the	table.
“Thinking	of	trying	to	catch	Black	single-handed,	Potter?”
“Yeah,	that’s	right,”	said	Harry	offhandedly.
Malfoy’s	thin	mouth	was	curving	in	a	mean	smile.
“Of	course,	if	it	was	me,”	he	said	quietly,	“I’d	have	done	something	before
now.	I	wouldn’t	be	staying	in	school	like	a	good	boy,	I’d	be	out	there	looking
for	him.”
“What	are	you	talking	about,	Malfoy?”	said	Ron	roughly.
“Don’t	you	
know
,	Potter?”	breathed	Malfoy,	his	pale	eyes	narrowed.
“Know	what?”
Malfoy	let	out	a	low,	sneering	laugh.
“Maybe	you’d	rather	not	risk	your	neck,”	he	said.	“Want	to	leave	it	to	the
dementors,	do	you?	But	if	it	was	me,	I’d	want	revenge.	I’d	hunt	him	down
myself.”
“What	are	you	talking	about?”	
said	Harry	angrily,	but	at	that	moment
Snape	called,	“You	should	have	finished	adding	your	ingredients	by	now;	this
potion	needs	to	stew	before	it	can	be	drunk,	so	clear	away	while	it	simmers
and	then	we’ll	test	Longbottom’s.	.	.	.”
Crabbe	and	Goyle	laughed	openly,	watching	Neville	sweat	as	he	stirred	his
potion	feverishly.	Hermione	was	muttering	instructions	to	him	out	of	the
corner	of	her	mouth,	so	that	Snape	wouldn’t	see.	Harry	and	Ron	packed	away
their	unused	ingredients	and	went	to	wash	their	hands	and	ladles	in	the	stone
basin	in	the	corner.
“What	did	Malfoy	mean?”	Harry	muttered	to	Ron	as	he	stuck	his	hands
under	the	icy	jet	that	poured	from	the	gargoyle’s	mouth.	“Why	would	I	want
revenge	on	Black?	He	hasn’t	done	anything	to	me	—	yet.”
“He’s	making	it	up,”	said	Ron	savagely.	“He’s	trying	to	make	you	do
something	stupid.	.	.	.”
The	end	of	the	lesson	in	sight,	Snape	strode	over	to	Neville,	who	was
cowering	by	his	cauldron.
“Everyone	gather	’round,”	said	Snape,	his	black	eyes	glittering,	“and	watch
what	happens	to	Longbottom’s	toad.	If	he	has	managed	to	produce	a
Shrinking	Solution,	it	will	shrink	to	a	tadpole.	If,	as	I	don’t	doubt,	he	has	done
it	wrong,	his	toad	is	likely	to	be	poisoned.”
The	Gryffindors	watched	fearfully.	The	Slytherins	looked	excited.	Snape
picked	up	Trevor	the	toad	in	his	left	hand	and	dipped	a	small	spoon	into
Neville’s	potion,	which	was	now	green.	He	trickled	a	few	drops	down
Trevor’s	throat.
There	was	a	moment	of	hushed	silence,	in	which	Trevor	gulped;	then	there
was	a	small	pop,	and	Trevor	the	tadpole	was	wriggling	in	Snape’s	palm.
The	Gryffindors	burst	into	applause.	Snape,	looking	sour,	pulled	a	small
bottle	from	the	pocket	of	his	robe,	poured	a	few	drops	on	top	of	Trevor,	and
he	reappeared	suddenly,	fully	grown.
“Five	points	from	Gryffindor,”	said	Snape,	which	wiped	the	smiles	from
every	face.	“I	told	you	not	to	help	him,	Miss	Granger.	Class	dismissed.”
Harry,	Ron,	and	Hermione	climbed	the	steps	to	the	entrance	hall.	Harry	was
