broom	for	long	journeys,	and	a	
Handbook	of	Do-It-Yourself	Broomcare.
Apart	from	his	friends,	the	thing	that	Harry	missed	most	about	Hogwarts
was	Quidditch,	the	most	popular	sport	in	the	magical	world	—	highly
dangerous,	very	exciting,	and	played	on	broomsticks.	Harry	happened	to	be	a
very	good	Quidditch	player;	he	had	been	the	youngest	person	in	a	century	to
be	picked	for	one	of	the	Hogwarts	House	teams.	One	of	Harry’s	most	prized
possessions	was	his	Nimbus	Two	Thousand	racing	broom.
Harry	put	the	leather	case	aside	and	picked	up	his	last	parcel.	He
recognized	the	untidy	scrawl	on	the	brown	paper	at	once:	This	was	from
Hagrid,	the	Hogwarts	gamekeeper.	He	tore	off	the	top	layer	of	paper	and
glimpsed	something	green	and	leathery,	but	before	he	could	unwrap	it
properly,	the	parcel	gave	a	strange	quiver,	and	whatever	was	inside	it	snapped
loudly	—	as	though	it	had	jaws.
Harry	froze.	He	knew	that	Hagrid	would	never	send	him	anything
dangerous	on	purpose,	but	then,	Hagrid	didn’t	have	a	normal	person’s	view	of
what	was	dangerous.	Hagrid	had	been	known	to	befriend	giant	spiders,	buy
vicious,	three-headed	dogs	from	men	in	pubs,	and	sneak	illegal	dragon	eggs
into	his	cabin.
Harry	poked	the	parcel	nervously.	It	snapped	loudly	again.	Harry	reached
for	the	lamp	on	his	bedside	table,	gripped	it	firmly	in	one	hand,	and	raised	it
over	his	head,	ready	to	strike.	Then	he	seized	the	rest	of	the	wrapping	paper	in
his	other	hand	and	pulled.
And	out	fell	—	a	book.	Harry	just	had	time	to	register	its	handsome	green
cover,	emblazoned	with	the	golden	title	
The	Monster	Book	of	Monsters
,
before	it	flipped	onto	its	edge	and	scuttled	sideways	along	the	bed	like	some
weird	crab.
“Uh-oh,”	Harry	muttered.
The	book	toppled	off	the	bed	with	a	loud	clunk	and	shuffled	rapidly	across
the	room.	Harry	followed	it	stealthily.	The	book	was	hiding	in	the	dark	space
under	his	desk.	Praying	that	the	Dursleys	were	still	fast	asleep,	Harry	got
down	on	his	hands	and	knees	and	reached	toward	it.
“Ouch!”
The	book	snapped	shut	on	his	hand	and	then	flapped	past	him,	still
scuttling	on	its	covers.	Harry	scrambled	around,	threw	himself	forward,	and
managed	to	flatten	it.	Uncle	Vernon	gave	a	loud,	sleepy	grunt	in	the	room
next	door.
Hedwig	and	Errol	watched	interestedly	as	Harry	clamped	the	struggling
book	tightly	in	his	arms,	hurried	to	his	chest	of	drawers,	and	pulled	out	a	belt,
which	he	buckled	tightly	around	it.	The	
Monster	Book
	shuddered	angrily,	but
could	no	longer	flap	and	snap,	so	Harry	threw	it	down	on	the	bed	and	reached
for	Hagrid’s	card.
Dear	Harry,
Happy	birthday!
Think	you	might	find	this	useful	for	next	year.	Won’t	say	no	more
here.	Tell	you	when	I	see	you.
Hope	the	Muggles	are	treating	you	right.
All	the	best,
Hagrid
It	struck	Harry	as	ominous	that	Hagrid	thought	a	biting	book	would	come
in	useful,	but	he	put	Hagrid’s	card	up	next	to	Ron’s	and	Hermione’s,	grinning
more	broadly	than	ever.	Now	there	was	only	the	letter	from	Hogwarts	left.
Noticing	that	it	was	rather	thicker	than	usual,	Harry	slit	open	the	envelope,
pulled	out	the	first	page	of	parchment	within,	and	read:
Dear	Mr.	Potter,
Please	note	that	the	new	school	year	will	begin	on	September	the	first.
The	Hogwarts	Express	will	leave	from	King’s	Cross	station,	platform
nine	and	three-quarters,	at	eleven	o’clock.
Third	years	are	permitted	to	visit	the	village	of	Hogsmeade	on	certain
weekends.	Please	give	the	enclosed	permission	form	to	your	parent	or
guardian	to	sign.
A	list	of	books	for	next	year	is	enclosed.
Yours	sincerely,
Deputy	Headmistress
Harry	pulled	out	the	Hogsmeade	permission	form	and	looked	at	it,	no
longer	grinning.	It	would	be	wonderful	to	visit	Hogsmeade	on	weekends;	he
knew	it	was	an	entirely	wizarding	village,	and	he	had	never	set	foot	there.	But
how	on	earth	was	he	going	to	persuade	Uncle	Vernon	or	Aunt	Petunia	to	sign
the	form?
He	looked	over	at	the	alarm	clock.	It	was	now	two	o’clock	in	the	morning.
Deciding	that	he’d	worry	about	the	Hogsmeade	form	when	he	woke	up,
Harry	got	back	into	bed	and	reached	up	to	cross	off	another	day	on	the	chart
he’d	made	for	himself,	counting	down	the	days	left	until	his	return	to
Hogwarts.	Then	he	took	off	his	glasses	and	lay	down,	eyes	open,	facing	his
three	birthday	cards.
Extremely	unusual	though	he	was,	at	that	moment	Harry	Potter	felt	just	like
everyone	else	—	glad,	for	the	first	time	in	his	life,	that	it	was	his	birthday.
H
	
CHAPTER		TWO
AUNT	MARGE’S	BIG	MISTAKE
arry	went	down	to	breakfast	the	next	morning	to	find	the	three
Dursleys	already	sitting	around	the	kitchen	table.	They	were	watching
a	brand-new	television,	a	welcome-home-for-the-summer	present	for	Dudley,
who	had	been	complaining	loudly	about	the	long	walk	between	the	fridge	and
the	television	in	the	living	room.	Dudley	had	spent	most	of	the	summer	in	the
kitchen,	his	piggy	little	eyes	fixed	on	the	screen	and	his	five	chins	wobbling
as	he	ate	continually.
Harry	sat	down	between	Dudley	and	Uncle	Vernon,	a	large,	beefy	man	with
very	little	neck	and	a	lot	of	mustache.	Far	from	wishing	Harry	a	happy
birthday,	none	of	the	Dursleys	made	any	sign	that	they	had	noticed	Harry
enter	the	room,	but	Harry	was	far	too	used	to	this	to	care.	He	helped	himself
to	a	piece	of	toast	and	then	looked	up	at	the	reporter	on	the	television,	who
was	halfway	through	a	report	on	an	escaped	convict:
“.	.	.	The	public	is	warned	that	Black	is	armed	and	extremely	dangerous.	A
special	hot	line	has	been	set	up,	and	any	sighting	of	Black	should	be	reported
immediately.”
“No	need	to	tell	us	
he’s
	no	good,”	snorted	Uncle	Vernon,	staring	over	the
top	of	his	newspaper	at	the	prisoner.	“Look	at	the	state	of	him,	the	filthy
layabout!	Look	at	his	hair!”
He	shot	a	nasty	look	sideways	at	Harry,	whose	untidy	hair	had	always	been
a	source	of	great	annoyance	to	Uncle	Vernon.	Compared	to	the	man	on	the
television,	however,	whose	gaunt	face	was	surrounded	by	a	matted,	elbow-
length	tangle,	Harry	felt	very	well	groomed	indeed.
The	reporter	had	reappeared.
“The	Ministry	of	Agriculture	and	Fisheries	will	announce	today	—”
“Hang	on!”	barked	Uncle	Vernon,	staring	furiously	at	the	reporter.	“You
didn’t	tell	us	where	that	maniac’s	escaped	from!	What	use	is	that?	Lunatic
could	be	coming	up	the	street	right	now!”
Aunt	Petunia,	who	was	bony	and	horse-faced,	whipped	around	and	peered
intently	out	of	the	kitchen	window.	Harry	knew	Aunt	Petunia	would	simply
love	to	be	the	one	to	call	the	hot	line	number.	She	was	the	nosiest	woman	in
the	world	and	spent	most	of	her	life	spying	on	the	boring,	law-abiding
neighbors.
“When	will	they	
learn,
”
	
said	Uncle	Vernon,	pounding	the	table	with	his
large	purple	fist,	“that	hanging’s	the	only	way	to	deal	with	these	people?”
“Very	true,”	said	Aunt	Petunia,	who	was	still	squinting	into	next	door’s
runner	beans.
Uncle	Vernon	drained	his	teacup,	glanced	at	his	watch,	and	added,	“I’d
better	be	off	in	a	minute,	Petunia.	Marge’s	train	gets	in	at	ten.”
Harry,	whose	thoughts	had	been	upstairs	with	the	Broomstick	Servicing
Kit,	was	brought	back	to	earth	with	an	unpleasant	bump.
“Aunt	Marge?”	he	blurted	out.	“Sh	—	
she’s
	not	coming	here,	is	she?”
Aunt	Marge	was	Uncle	Vernon’s	sister.	Even	though	she	was	not	a	blood
relative	of	Harry’s	(whose	mother	had	been	Aunt	Petunia’s	sister),	he	had
been	forced	to	call	her	“Aunt”	all	his	life.	Aunt	Marge	lived	in	the	country,	in
a	house	with	a	large	garden,	where	she	bred	bulldogs.	She	didn’t	often	stay	at
Privet	Drive,	because	she	couldn’t	bear	to	leave	her	precious	dogs,	but	each	of
her	visits	stood	out	horribly	vividly	in	Harry’s	mind.
At	Dudley’s	fifth	birthday	party,	Aunt	Marge	had	whacked	Harry	around
the	shins	with	her	walking	stick	to	stop	him	from	beating	Dudley	at	musical
statues.	A	few	years	later,	she	had	turned	up	at	Christmas	with	a	computerized
robot	for	Dudley	and	a	box	of	dog	biscuits	for	Harry.	On	her	last	visit,	the
year	before	Harry	started	at	Hogwarts,	Harry	had	accidentally	trodden	on	the
tail	of	her	favorite	dog.	Ripper	had	chased	Harry	out	into	the	garden	and	up	a
tree,	and	Aunt	Marge	had	refused	to	call	him	off	until	past	midnight.	The
memory	of	this	incident	still	brought	tears	of	laughter	to	Dudley’s	eyes.
“Marge’ll	be	here	for	a	week,”	Uncle	Vernon	snarled,	“and	while	we’re	on
the	subject”	—	he	pointed	a	fat	finger	threateningly	at	Harry	—	“we	need	to
get	a	few	things	straight	before	I	go	and	collect	her.”
Dudley	smirked	and	withdrew	his	gaze	from	the	television.	Watching	Harry
being	bullied	by	Uncle	Vernon	was	Dudley’s	favorite	form	of	entertainment.
“Firstly,”	growled	Uncle	Vernon,	“you’ll	keep	a	civil	tongue	in	your	head
when	you’re	talking	to	Marge.”
“All	right,”	said	Harry	bitterly,	“if	she	does	when	she’s	talking	to	me.”
“Secondly,”	said	Uncle	Vernon,	acting	as	though	he	had	not	heard	Harry’s
reply,	“as	Marge	doesn’t	know	anything	about	your	
abnormality,
	I	don’t	want
any	—	any	
funny
	stuff	while	she’s	here.	You	behave	yourself,	got	me?”
“I	will	if	she	does,”	said	Harry	through	gritted	teeth.
“And	thirdly,”	said	Uncle	Vernon,	his	mean	little	eyes	now	slits	in	his	great
purple	face,	“we’ve	told	Marge	you	attend	St.	Brutus’s	Secure	Center	for
Incurably	Criminal	Boys.”
“What?”	
Harry	yelled.
“And	you’ll	be	sticking	to	that	story,	boy,	or	there’ll	be	trouble,”	spat	Uncle
Vernon.
Harry	sat	there,	white-faced	and	furious,	staring	at	Uncle	Vernon,	hardly
able	to	believe	it.	Aunt	Marge	coming	for	a	week-long	visit	—	it	was	the
worst	birthday	present	the	Dursleys	had	ever	given	him,	including	that	pair	of
Uncle	Vernon’s	old	socks.
“Well,	Petunia,”	said	Uncle	Vernon,	getting	heavily	to	his	feet,	“I’ll	be	off
to	the	station,	then.	Want	to	come	along	for	the	ride,	Dudders?”
“No,”	said	Dudley,	whose	attention	had	returned	to	the	television	now	that
Uncle	Vernon	had	finished	threatening	Harry.
“Duddy’s	got	to	make	himself	smart	for	his	auntie,”	said	Aunt	Petunia,
smoothing	Dudley’s	thick	blond	hair.	“Mummy’s	bought	him	a	lovely	new
bow	tie.”
Uncle	Vernon	clapped	Dudley	on	his	porky	shoulder.
“See	you	in	a	bit,	then,”	he	said,	and	he	left	the	kitchen.
Harry,	who	had	been	sitting	in	a	kind	of	horrified	trance,	had	a	sudden	idea.
Abandoning	his	toast,	he	got	quickly	to	his	feet	and	followed	Uncle	Vernon	to
the	front	door.
Uncle	Vernon	was	pulling	on	his	car	coat.
“I’m	not	taking	
you
,”	he	snarled	as	he	turned	to	see	Harry	watching	him.
“Like	I	wanted	to	come,”	said	Harry	coldly.	“I	want	to	ask	you	something.”
Uncle	Vernon	eyed	him	suspiciously.
“Third	years	at	Hog	—	at	my	school	are	allowed	to	visit	the	village
sometimes,”	said	Harry.
“So?”	snapped	Uncle	Vernon,	taking	his	car	keys	from	a	hook	next	to	the
door.
“I	need	you	to	sign	the	permission	form,”	said	Harry	in	a	rush.
“And	why	should	I	do	that?”	sneered	Uncle	Vernon.
“Well,”	said	Harry,	choosing	his	words	carefully,	“it’ll	be	hard	work,
pretending	to	Aunt	Marge	I	go	to	that	St.	Whatsits	—”
“St.	Brutus’s	Secure	Center	for	Incurably	Criminal	Boys!”	bellowed	Uncle
Vernon,	and	Harry	was	pleased	to	hear	a	definite	note	of	panic	in	Uncle
Vernon’s	voice.
“Exactly,”	said	Harry,	looking	calmly	up	into	Uncle	Vernon’s	large,	purple
face.	“It’s	a	lot	to	remember.	I’ll	have	to	make	it	sound	convincing,	won’t	I?
What	if	I	accidentally	let	something	slip?”
“You’ll	get	the	stuffing	knocked	out	of	you,	won’t	you?”	
roared	Uncle
Vernon,	advancing	on	Harry	with	his	fist	raised.	But	Harry	stood	his	ground.
“Knocking	the	stuffing	out	of	me	won’t	make	Aunt	Marge	forget	what	I
could	tell	her,”	he	said	grimly.
Uncle	Vernon	stopped,	his	fist	still	raised,	his	face	an	ugly	puce.
“But	if	you	sign	my	permission	form,”	Harry	went	on	quickly,	“I	swear	I’ll
remember	where	I’m	supposed	to	go	to	school,	and	I’ll	act	like	a	Mug	—	like
I’m	normal	and	everything.”
Harry	could	tell	that	Uncle	Vernon	was	thinking	it	over,	even	if	his	teeth
were	bared	and	a	vein	was	throbbing	in	his	temple.
“Right,”	he	snapped	finally.	“I	shall	monitor	your	behavior	carefully	during
Marge’s	visit.	If,	at	the	end	of	it,	you’ve	toed	the	line	and	kept	to	the	story,	I’ll
sign	your	ruddy	form.”
He	wheeled	around,	pulled	open	the	front	door,	and	slammed	it	so	hard	that
one	of	the	little	panes	of	glass	at	the	top	fell	out.
Harry	didn’t	return	to	the	kitchen.	He	went	back	upstairs	to	his	bedroom.	If
he	was	going	to	act	like	a	real	Muggle,	he’d	better	start	now.	Slowly	and	sadly
he	gathered	up	all	his	presents	and	his	birthday	cards	and	hid	them	under	the
loose	floorboard	with	his	homework.	Then	he	went	to	Hedwig’s	cage.	Errol
seemed	to	have	recovered;	he	and	Hedwig	were	both	asleep,	heads	under	their
wings.	Harry	sighed,	then	poked	them	both	awake.
“Hedwig,”	he	said	gloomily,	“you’re	going	to	have	to	clear	off	for	a	week.
Go	with	Errol.	Ron’ll	look	after	you.	I’ll	write	him	a	note,	explaining.	And
don’t	look	at	me	like	that”	—	Hedwig’s	large	amber	eyes	were	reproachful	—
“it’s	not	my	fault.	It’s	the	only	way	I’ll	be	allowed	to	visit	Hogsmeade	with
Ron	and	Hermione.”
Ten	minutes	later,	Errol	and	Hedwig	(who	had	a	note	to	Ron	bound	to	her
leg)	soared	out	of	the	window	and	out	of	sight.	Harry,	now	feeling	thoroughly
miserable,	put	the	empty	cage	away	inside	the	wardrobe.
But	Harry	didn’t	have	long	to	brood.	In	next	to	no	time,	Aunt	Petunia	was
shrieking	up	the	stairs	for	Harry	to	come	down	and	get	ready	to	welcome	their
guest.
“Do	something	about	your	hair!”	Aunt	Petunia	snapped	as	he	reached	the
hall.
Harry	couldn’t	see	the	point	of	trying	to	make	his	hair	lie	flat.	Aunt	Marge
loved	criticizing	him,	so	the	untidier	he	looked,	the	happier	she	would	be.
All	too	soon,	there	was	a	crunch	of	gravel	outside	as	Uncle	Vernon’s	car
pulled	back	into	the	driveway,	then	the	clunk	of	the	car	doors	and	footsteps	on
the	garden	path.
“Get	the	door!”	Aunt	Petunia	hissed	at	Harry.
A	feeling	of	great	gloom	in	his	stomach,	Harry	pulled	the	door	open.
On	the	threshold	stood	Aunt	Marge.	She	was	very	like	Uncle	Vernon:
Large,	beefy,	and	purple-faced,	she	even	had	a	mustache,	though	not	as	bushy
as	his.	In	one	hand	she	held	an	enormous	suitcase,	and	tucked	under	the	other
was	an	old	and	evil-tempered	bulldog.
“Where’s	my	Dudders?”	roared	Aunt	Marge.	“Where’s	my	neffy-poo?”
Dudley	came	waddling	down	the	hall,	his	blond	hair	plastered	flat	to	his	fat
head,	a	bow	tie	just	visible	under	his	many	chins.	Aunt	Marge	thrust	the
suitcase	into	Harry’s	stomach,	knocking	the	wind	out	of	him,	seized	Dudley
in	a	tight	one-armed	hug,	and	planted	a	large	kiss	on	his	cheek.
Harry	knew	perfectly	well	that	Dudley	only	put	up	with	Aunt	Marge’s	hugs
because	he	was	well	paid	for	it,	and	sure	enough,	when	they	broke	apart,
Dudley	had	a	crisp	twenty-pound	note	clutched	in	his	fat	fist.
“Petunia!”	shouted	Aunt	Marge,	striding	past	Harry	as	though	he	was	a	hat
stand.	Aunt	Marge	and	Aunt	Petunia	kissed,	or	rather,	Aunt	Marge	bumped
her	large	jaw	against	Aunt	Petunia’s	bony	cheekbone.
Uncle	Vernon	now	came	in,	smiling	jovially	as	he	shut	the	door.
“Tea,	Marge?”	he	said.	“And	what	will	Ripper	take?”
“Ripper	can	have	some	tea	out	of	my	saucer,”	said	Aunt	Marge	as	they	all
trooped	into	the	kitchen,	leaving	Harry	alone	in	the	hall	with	the	suitcase.	But
Harry	wasn’t	complaining;	any	excuse	not	to	be	with	Aunt	Marge	was	fine	by
him,	so	he	began	to	heave	the	case	upstairs	into	the	spare	bedroom,	taking	as
long	as	he	could.
By	the	time	he	got	back	to	the	kitchen,	Aunt	Marge	had	been	supplied	with
tea	and	fruitcake,	and	Ripper	was	lapping	noisily	in	the	corner.	Harry	saw
Aunt	Petunia	wince	slightly	as	specks	of	tea	and	drool	flecked	her	clean	floor.
Aunt	Petunia	hated	animals.
“Who’s	looking	after	the	other	dogs,	Marge?”	Uncle	Vernon	asked.
“Oh,	I’ve	got	Colonel	Fubster	managing	them,”	boomed	Aunt	Marge.
“He’s	retired	now,	good	for	him	to	have	something	to	do.	But	I	couldn’t	leave
poor	old	Ripper.	He	pines	if	he’s	away	from	me.”
Ripper	began	to	growl	again	as	Harry	sat	down.	This	directed	Aunt
Marge’s	attention	to	Harry	for	the	first	time.
“So!”	she	barked.	“Still	here,	are	you?”
“Yes,”	said	Harry.
“Don’t	you	say	‘yes’	in	that	ungrateful	tone,”	Aunt	Marge	growled.	“It’s
damn	good	of	Vernon	and	Petunia	to	keep	you.	Wouldn’t	have	done	it	myself.
You’d	have	gone	straight	to	an	orphanage	if	you’d	been	dumped	on	
my
doorstep.”
Harry	was	bursting	to	say	that	he’d	rather	live	in	an	orphanage	than	with
the	Dursleys,	but	the	thought	of	the	Hogsmeade	form	stopped	him.	He	forced
his	face	into	a	painful	smile.
“Don’t	you	smirk	at	me!”	boomed	Aunt	Marge.	“I	can	see	you	haven’t
improved	since	I	last	saw	you.	I	hoped	school	would	knock	some	manners
into	you.”	She	took	a	large	gulp	of	tea,	wiped	her	mustache,	and	said,	“Where
is	it	that	you	send	him,	again,	Vernon?”
“St.	Brutus’s,”	said	Uncle	Vernon	promptly.	“It’s	a	first-rate	institution	for
hopeless	cases.”
